Because streams do mutation, it is possible that cycles can be created.  E.g. If
a chunk that references a stream handle, directly or transitively, is put in the
same stream: chunk ->* handle -> stream -> elements -> chunk

Solution idea:

If allocation from storage is needed but it's full, search for an unreachable
cycle and free it, to make some storage available.  Because cycles can only
happen through streams, the search can be more effecient by only checking
streams.  This could be even more efficient if the storage controller maintains
a set of all streams (so it doesn't have to scan the entire storage looking for
streams); and because there shouldn't be very many streams, the storage used for
this list seems reasonable.




------

Below idea can't work because:

If stream A and stream B both have as an element the same chunk that reaches
both streams, then both streams will adjust their refocunt free limit up.  But
if all non-cycle refs to stream A are lost, then according to this idea, stream
A will be freed, but this is wrong because there are still non-cycle refs to
stream B which refs stream A and so stream A should not be freed!

------

Solution idea:

A chunk has metadata that says what streams it references, directly or
transitively, i.e. what streams are reachable from it, i.e. what streams it
reaches.  When a new chunk is created, its such metadata is the union of that
metadata of any chunks it references.  This metadata might be implemented as a
list that could actually be a tree (similar to string ropes) to enable more
efficient list appending.

For this to work, I think that in addition to tracking what streams are
reachable from a chunk, must also track what chunk directly references such
reachable streams.  I.e. a tracked datum is a pair of a pointer to a stream and
a pointer to the chunk that directly references the corresponding stream.  This
way, a stream can know how many distinct refs to itself exist in any cycle(s)
(by checking, for each indicated referenced-stream, how many distinct
referencing-chunks are paired with the stream), so it can be known by what
amount to adjust the reference count free limit.  For example, if a stream has
two elements that both reach the same chunk that references the stream, then
there are two cycles but only one reference in the cycles that contributes to
the stream's refcount, and so when the stream's refcount is decremented to 1
then there are no non-cycle refs and so the stream should be freed.  Another
example, if a stream has two elements that reach distinct chunks that reference
the stream, then there are two cycles and two references in the cycles that
contribute to the stream's refcount, and so when the stream's refcount is
decremented to 2 then there are no non-cycle refs and so the stream should be
freed.  Note that I think decr-refcount will have to be careful not to recur
infinitely (nor excessively) because of reference cycle(s) as it follows and
decrements sub-references.

To lessen the expense of tracking what streams are referenced by chunks, all
chunk fields (and registers) will have an additional tag bit that indicates
whether a pointer points to a chunk from which a stream is reachable.  This way,
loading from storage the metadata for what streams are reachable from a chunk
does not need to be done for chunks that don't reach any streams, when creating
a new chunk.  I.e. when creating a new chunk, to create its metadata that
indicates what streams are reachable from it, the such metadata of all chunks to
be referenced by the new chunk must be combined, but if a field/pointer tag bit
indicates a referenced chunk does not reach any streams, then loading such
chunks' metadata is unnecessary.  Otherwise, every chunk-creation operation
would have to load from storage the metadata of every to-be referenced chunk to
know what if any streams are reachable from these chunks.  Stream-reaching
chunks will be the minority, so it seems quite worthwhile to avoid so much
unnecessary loading of metadata.

For this solution to all come together, the stream implementation will have to
be changed so that every time an element is put into or taken from a stream, the
stream's set of indications of what streams are reachable from it will have to
be updated, and from this set the stream's refcount-free-limit will have to be
updated.  All this will be done be the storage controller, serialized so that
the operations complete atomically and are concurrency-safe.

An interesting case to consider is when a stream has an element that reaches the
stream and so there is a cycle, and thus the stream's refcount-free-limit is
adjusted up for this.  Then that element is taken out of the stream, which
causes the stream's refcount-free-limit to be readjusted down, which means that
the reference to the stream in the taken element is now counted as a non-cycle
reference, i.e. this reference now contributes to keeping the stream alive,
which is desired.

I'm not sure if the design should be changed such that creating a chunk is all
done by the storage controller (in contrast to the current design where the SC
only allocates a chunk ID and a processor process sets the mmap'ed memory
fields.  Because of the additional operations of this idea for dealing with
cycles, it might make sense to have the storage controller do it all.  But if
there are no concurrency problems with having processor processes do it then
maybe they should for efficiency.  But for a real machine it would have to all
be done by the storage controller, so it seems bad to add to the processors more
unrealistic logic that doesn't correspond to how a real machine would be.  So I
think the emulator should also be changed such that the SC does everything for
chunk creation, which means the chunk-create message to the SC will have to
include the field values for a new chunk.

------

Is the challenge that, for a ref cycle between stream and an element of the
stream, and when the stream has the only ref to the element, if the stream
itself is ref'd and so should be kept alive then the element must be kept alive,
but if all refs to stream are lost then the stream and the element should both
be freed.  ?

The primary goal is that, if a cycle exists between a stream and one or more of
its elements, and all references to the stream, other than those in cycles, are
lost then the stream should be freed and any chunks that were only ref'd by the
stream should also be freed.

------

TODO: think about how this idea compounds with itself if a graph references
multiple streams and the graph is simultaneously put in multiple of the streams.
Ref count cycles should be prevented for each stream, and the desirable
semantics, of still being able to have the only refs to the graph be in the
streams without the graph being freed, must still work.

TODO: think about how this idea works with all the possibilities for cycles: a
stream has multiple elements that have cycle to it; or stream A has element that
refs (maybe transitively) stream B ... which has element that refs* stream X
... which has element that refs stream A, thus a cycle exists with stream A.

------

Hmm, what about the issue that cycles can be created through multiple streams by a
stream having as element another stream and after stream A is put in stream B
then stream B is put in stream A.

How does this affect the above idea for dealing with cycles?  When stream A is
put in stream B, stream B checks if stream A references stream B, and at that
time it does not and so stream B proceeds as such.  But then, after stream B
refs stream A, stream B is put in stream A thus creating a cycle, and it's too
late for stream B to know.

But stream A can see that stream B refs stream A.  So, does this mean that the
above idea still can work?  I suspect so.




[Old ideas:]

It seems a way to prevent this is to tag all chunks that reference a
stream, including those that only reference a stream transitively.  I.e. when
creating/defining a new chunk, if any of the to-be-referenced chunks are tagged
as stream-referencing then the new chunk is also tagged as such.

(This solution is not so good because it'd prevent putting a chunk that
references any stream in another stream even if the streams are different and a
cycle would not exist.)

This solution poses a challenge for procedures that desire to save a reference
to a stream across a possibly-suspending stream-get, because the suspended task
chunk needs to reference the stream but the stream needs to reference the task
chunk thus requiring a cycle.

I think the solution is to not save a reference to a stream in a suspended task,
but to have stream-put set a reference to the stream in the task ...
DAMN stream-put only has a reference to the tail handle, while a task suspended
on stream-get needs the head handle.
A Stream chunk could also reference its handles, to enable stream-put to set a
reference to the stream's head handle in a stream-get resume task.

But, a solution to restore reference to head handle still does not solve
problem of wanting to save reference to tail handle across stream-get but this
causing cycle.

The system could automagically setup a stream-get resume task to have references
to both head and tail handles, however this would violate capability security if
the task didn't previously have a reference to the tail.  (The reason I made
head and tail handles, instead of referring to the stream chunk directly, was to
enable cap-sec for when only need ref of head or tail but not both.)

To solve this, seems like could check if save registers are tagged as
stream-referencing.  If so, check if register value is reference to handle, or
if ref to chunk, check if the chunk refs one or both handles, but don't check
any deeper levels.  Then ...?  Anything that passes the check can't be actually
be saved in the resume task chunk because that would cause a cycle, so upon
resumption could set save register to refer to handle.  But what about scenario
where it's desired to save both handles and other data? - there's only two save
slots.

------

I don't understand J.Dennis' comment about how cycles are prevented via stream
chunk tagging.  He references the mechanism being similar to that of incremental
arrays, so I should learn about that.

------

TODO: weak idea isn't quite right.  Don't want weak refs, but want streams to
know how many cycle refs to themselves there are, so that decr-refcount!
operation can know to free a stream when its refcount is decremented to the
number of cycle refs (which means there are no more refs outside the cycle(s)).

When a chunk ref is put in a stream, it is checked if the chunk's metadata says
it references the stream.  If so, the stream's ref to the chunk is weak,
i.e. does not increment the chunk's ref count, to prevent ref count cycle.

If there will be no other references to such a chunk put in a stream, i.e. the
weak ref the stream has to the chunk will be the only ref to it, the chunk must
be prevented from being freed when the last non-weak ref is lost, i.e. when
decr-refcount! is done.
